- I'll take this one inside.
- Thank you.
Help out, will you?
Excuse me.
Yes, hello.
- Can I have one?
- You'll get one later.
- Sir.
- Yes.
- All set?
- Yes, I'll add some more.
- Send those coffees outside.
- Yes, ma'am.
- Is everything ready?
- In a moment, ma'am.
- Are these cakes enough?
- It'll last until this evening, ma'am.
Thank you.
Ladies, do you have enough vegetables?
Yes, we do, ma'am.
Thank you.
It needs to be cool.
Yes. Add more rose petals.
So it feels more bridal.
Please handle everything nicely.
Yes, of course.
Thank you.
Yes.
You look beautiful.
Mom.
We're done, miss.
Thank you very much.
Your late father must be proud of you now.
I know, Mom.
Dad must be proud of you too.
You raised me on your own
and now I'm all grown up.
Rina.
After you get married,
I can't take care of you anymore.
Marriage
is not just wedding vows and parties.
It's a long journey.
You have to make sure
nothing from the past
is still haunting you.
If you have unfinished business,
maybe someone from the past,
from your side or Pram's,
you need to end things.
I'm sure there's nothing wrong, Mom.
Thank God then.
I just want you to be truly happy.
Thank you so much, Mom.
All right then.
The event is about to start.
Did the power go out?
I think so.
Please check. We're about to start.
Yes, ma'am.
Mom, what's going on?
Looks like a short circuit.
Mr. Pono is checking.
Just stay in your room.
Okay.
Who is there?
Is something wrong, miss?
No, nothing.
My gosh.
Mom!
- Look!
- What is it?
What is it, Rina?
- My God.
- Why is there a mouse?
- What is it?
Sir, why is the water black?
It looks like blood.
What blood?
Why is it black?
I don't understand.
This is a bad omen.
How does it feel
to be back in Wonosobo, Ms. Manager?
Honestly, I don't remember anymore.
But it feels the same.
Cool. Clean.
But I'm not a manager anymore.
I'm the manager's wife.
Well, still a manager then.
- Rin.
- Yes?
Thank you.
You sacrificed for us.
You left your job.
I got tired
of getting transferred here and there.
Thank God you got promoted
and moved to the Wonosobo office.
They provided a house too.
Yes, thank God, Rin.
Rin.
What is it?
I was thinking about what happened
before the ceremony.
Rin, we've talked about that a lot.
There are no such things as ghosts.
But the people at home
are thinking the same thing.
The mirror cracked
because it was poorly made.
The power went out
due to a short circuit or overload.
And the photo fell
because it just wasn't hung properly.
What about the mud? The mouse?
The water that turned black?
Your mother said that
she had an argument
with the neighbor next door.
She thinks they did it.
They aren't nice people anyway.
Besides, Rin,
to this day, everything has been fine.
Nobody got hurt, right?
Rin.
There are many other important things
that we need to think about.
Our new life.
I can't wait to have children with you.
Me too.
- Two.
- Two?
I want 11.
Dear!
They're here!
It's Mr. Pram!
My hands are dirty.
- Sir.
- Mr. Pram.
How are you?
We're doing well, sir.
- Thank God.
- How was the trip?
Thank God it went smoothly.
- Thank God.
- Now.
Meet my wife, Rina.
Rin, Mr. Muri and Mrs. Dar
were hired by the office
to help clean the house once a week.
They live nearby.
Over there.
Please come in.
The house is ready and cleaned.
Shining like a diamond!
Come in.
- Peace be upon you.
- And upon you too.
The lights have been replaced
with new ones.
Right.
- The room is ready too.
- Right.
Yes.
- Ma'am.
- Yes, sir.
- Yes.
What is this?
- Dear.
- Yes?
- Dear!
- Yes, dear?
- What is it?
- Why is there mud here?
I already mopped this room.
It should be clean.
Then what is this?
It's all right.
Please just clean it.
- Yes, of course.
- Yes, sir.
- I'm going to check the bedroom.
- Okay.
It's so hot.
Don't we have a fan?
We don't.
I'll ask the office tomorrow.
Excuse me, Mrs. Rina.
Mrs. Dar, what is it?
Are you going to hold a housewarming?
If so, Mr. Muri and I,
along with the neighbors,
are ready to help.
Yes, we're doing it.
Thank you so much.
Of course. You're welcome.
Well…
You got a fan?
From Pram's office.
It was hot last night.
What? That's strange.
People rarely say
that it's hot here.
It's always chilly here.
Please come in.
Just put it there.
Mrs. Dar, the fritters are done.
Right. Please fill the glasses
with coffee.
All right.
Hello?
Rin, I'm coming home late.
I need to get
some work done at the office.
When the ustad comes later,
please make him some ginger tea.
It's his favorite.
All right.
- There she is.
- Hello.
Peace be upon you, sir.
Come with me.
Please have a seat.
My husband will be late.
Would you like some ginger tea?
Or just plain tea?
All right then. I'll be right back.
- Mr. Muri.
- Yes.
Where is the ustad?
Ustad?
Yes, he was waiting inside.
I'm not sure.
He was wearing all black.
He doesn't usually wear black.
He usually wears white.
- Hold this.
- Okay.
Pram.
Rin.
This is the ustad.
I happened to meet him on the way here,
so I gave him a ride.
- Please come in.
- Thank you.
- Let's go, Rin.
- Sir.
- Pram.
- Yes.
There was an old man.
I thought he was the ustad.
He waited inside.
Maybe it's just a neighbor.
Let's go inside. It's time to start.
Mr. Muri, please move the car.
Let's start our prayer
- by reciting Al-Fatihah.
- Yes.
Hopefully, Mr. Pram and Mrs. Rina
- will always be blessed in this house.
- Yes.
- Amen.
Al-Fatihah.
I seek refuge in Allah from shaitan,
the accursed one.
In the name of Allah, the Most
Compassionate, the Most Merciful.
All praise is for Allah,
Lord of all worlds,
the Most Compassionate, Most Merciful,
Master of the Day of Judgment.
You alone we worship
and You alone we ask for help…
Pram, over there! The old man!
What?
Excuse me for a moment.
Excuse me.
What's wrong, Rin?
Someone was standing there.
There's nothing here.
Pram.
I'm still thinking
about the old man from last night.
Why was I the only one who could see him?
Rin.
Mr. Muri and the neighbors
are still trying to find the old man
who fits the characteristics
you described.
But they're pretty sure
that there's no one here
who looks like that.
Then who is he?
Why did he point at me?
Maybe he got lost
or he was just messing around.
Listen.
Don't worry about it.
From now on,
just close all the doors and windows.
Lock up if necessary.
God willing, we will be safe, Rin.
I have to go, okay?
- Be careful.
- I will.
I want you!
Rin.
Rin, what's wrong?
The old man.
The old man is here.
What? What old man, Rin?
There is no old man.
- I'm scared.
- It was just a dream.
Calm down, Rin.
All right, Rin.
I will talk
to Mr. Muri and Mrs. Dar tomorrow.
I'll tell them to stay here
to keep you company.
Okay?
7 WEEKS LATER
Please try it, Mrs. Rina.
Mrs. Dar.
Add a little nutmeg and sugar.
Yes, it'll make it more delicious.
What's wrong, Mrs. Rina?
Later, would you please
check the harvest data
- from last month?
- Yes.
- Then coordinate with the factory.
- Yes, sir.
- Mr. Pram.
- Yes?
I'm sorry. You've got a phone call.
Yes, thank you.
Hello?
Hello, Mr. Pram. Sorry to bother you.
But it seems like Mrs. Rina is sick.
She's been vomiting.
She feels feverish.
What's wrong with my wife, doctor?
Mrs. Rina is not sick,
but pregnant.
- Thank God.
- Congratulations, sir.
Congratulations, ma'am.
Based on the first day
of your last period,
your pregnancy is seven weeks old.
When do you think
we'll start to feel the baby move?
The doctor said 20 weeks.
But surely from now on,
he or she will be able to hear us.
Sweetheart.
Stay healthy, okay?
Mom and Dad love you.
Hello.
Rin, I still have to work overtime
at the office.
Go ahead and eat.
Then just go to bed.
No need to wait for me.
Okay then.
Good luck with your work.
And take care.
Okay.
Rin.
I…
I love you.
I love you too, so much.
Ma'am.
- Yes.
- Clean it up, please.
I'm not hungry.
Yes, of course.
Mrs. Dar, Mr. Muri.
- Yes.
Did someone come in?
What is it?
I'm not sure.
I didn't see anybody.
Was it you?
It wasn't me.
Maybe it was a cat.
What do you mean, a cat?
It's clearly your footprints.
My feet are clean.
- I swear.
- Okay.
Please just clean it.
- Yes.
- Yes, Mrs. Rina.
Mr. Muri.
Mrs. Dar.
Mrs. Dar!
Mr. Muri!
What is it, Rin?
Rina, what is it?
The old man.
My God.
It's just a dream.
Calm down.
You're okay. Calm down.
Rin.
Rina.
What's wrong?
Rin.
Let's go to the doctor now.
I'm so sorry, Mrs. Rina.
We couldn't save the baby.
Please excuse me.
Stay strong, Rin.
The doctor said that
you can still get pregnant again.
But the most important thing now
is to recover first.
Rin.
Something's wrong.
I've taken care of it as best as I could.
I was never too tired.
I watched what I ate.
How could this happen?
Maybe God just hasn't given us
His blessing yet, Rin.
This is all beyond our control.
The old man.
The old man, Pram.
The old man ate our baby.
Rin.
Don't think about things that aren't real.
We just haven't been blessed
to have children, Rin.
All of this must be connected.
This is the proof.
Rin.
You got that scar
from gripping your stomach too tightly.
You did that with your own nails.
No.
It is all related.
Rin.
I have to go, okay?
Get some rest.
Take care, Pram.
I will.
Mr. Muri.
Yes, Mrs. Rina.
Do you know anyone who is psychic?
I do.
Does he do home visits?
Yes.
Please call him over.
But don't let Pram know.
Yes, Mrs. Rina.
Mrs. Rina.
Mr. Narto has arrived.
- Please, sir.
- Yes.
Mrs. Rina, this is Mr. Narto.
Sir, thank you for coming.
You're welcome.
- Please.
- Yes, thank you.
- The drinks.
- Yes.
Please excuse me.
I have to see with my third eye.
I come in peace, with respect.
Forgive my intrusion.
I ask you to please show me
what is in this woman's body
and what's in this house.
Yes.
Yes, thank you.
You were right, Mrs. Rina.
There is indeed something wrong.
Witchcraft.
For now, I can't be sure
what kind of black magic this is.
So I can't remove it yet.
I can only assure you that
this curse was indeed sent to you.
And the miscarriage you had
was because of this curse.
For now, all I can do for you
is to give you protection.
Mrs. Rina, put these
around the corners of the house.
It's to protect you from black magic.
And most importantly,
don't forget to pray.
Ask Allah for protection.
A FEW MONTHS LATER…
Excuse me, Mr. Pram.
Yes, of course.
Let's go!
Where are you taking that?
I'm changing it.
This one has caterpillars.
I see.
- Mr. Muri.
- Yes.
What's wrong?
What is this?
I'm not sure.
I don't know.
You.
You secretly brought a shaman
into our home.
I was trying to protect us, Pram.
And the old man has never appeared
in my dreams again.
- There's no harm in trying, right?
- Rin.
How many times do I have to tell you?
There are no such things as ghosts!
Pram!
I don't want to see
things like this in our house.
I want you.
Dear.
What's that sound, dear?
- What is that?
- I don't know.
Pram!
Pram, it's the old man!
- Pram!
- What is it, Rin?
- The old man.
- What old man?
What old man?
What is it, Rin?
What?
Over there!
- What's wrong, Mrs. Rina?
- Mr. Muri, please accompany Pram.
- Yes.
- Quickly, dear.
- Mr. Muri, please get me a ladder!
- Right.
What's wrong?
Mr. Pram.
What's that?
I don't know.
What is that, Pram?
There is no one up there. Only this.
My God.
This is dangerous.
It looks like witchcraft.
This is soil from a grave.
Black blood from a rat.
This is not just any witchcraft.
It's the black blood curse.
This curse targets
your blood and descendants.
So if you get pregnant,
you will definitely miscarry
and it will keep happening.
Does that mean
we will never be able to have children?
I'm afraid so.
Who…
Who did it?
I don't know who sent it yet.
I do know that this curse was sent
by someone who was truly hurt
to get revenge.
Sir.
Can it be removed?
It's not that easy.
The only way
is by finding the object that is
the center of the power of this curse.
Only then can the removal ritual
be performed.
An object?
Yes, an object.
Like this clay jar.
It is usually planted in the house
of the person who sent the curse.
Mrs. Rina.
Do you think
there is someone who doesn't like you
and holds a grudge against you?
Rin.
Can you think of anyone?
I was thinking about what Mom said
regarding unresolved problems
in the past, Pram.
Before I dated you,
I once dated someone.
His name is Yudi.
I never told you
because I don't want to remember him.
He was obsessed with me.
Do you know where he is now?
I dated him for six months
when I was placed in Semarang.
When we finally decided to part ways,
he couldn't accept it.
He followed me,
stalked me,
and everything stopped
when I moved to Solo and met you.
I haven't heard from him again until now.
But he once told me
that he wouldn't stay silent
if I married someone else.
This must be his doing.
We have to find him
and make sure
to remove this curse.
- Hello, Sinta.
- Yes.
- This is Rina.
- Hi, Rina. What's going on?
Do you know how Yudi is doing now?
Yudi? I'm not sure.
Akbar, you still remember Yudi, right?
Yudi? Who do you mean?
We were coworkers back then in Semarang.
Don, if you meet Yudi, let me know, okay?
- Okay. Where should I reach you?
- Call this number.
Rina, have you heard about Yudi?
He was arrested by the police.
Arrested by the police?
Yeah. He was arrested in Jakarta.
All right, thanks.
Who was that?
Yudi was once arrested in Jakarta.
I don't know why.
After he was released,
no one knew where he was.
How about we ask the police for help?
1981, RINA'S 7 MONTHS OF PREGNANCY
Allah is the Greatest.
Sweetheart.
Stay healthy, okay?
You have made Mom and Dad very happy.
When you grow up,
be someone who's helpful.
Do good to others.
Amen.
Pram.
Have you heard from the police?
Not yet.
Hello?
Hi, Rina. This is Sinta.
Sinta? So?
It's about Yudi.
He's at his sister's house in Slawi.
Thank you, Sin.
- Any updates, Rin?
- It's Yudi.
He's in Slawi, at his sister's house.
Mr. Narto and I will go there.
Stay at home and ask your mom
to come over.
What do you see?
I can't feel
the presence of the object here.
Excuse me.
Excuse us, miss.
Is Yudi there?
I am Yudi's friend.
I have business with him.
Yudi is no longer with us.
What do you mean?
Six months ago,
Yudi had an accident.
The limestone quarry here collapsed.
He died?
Yes, Rin.
Mr. Narto also said that
if the person who sent the curse has died,
the curse should go away.
But it's still there.
So yeah,
Yudi is definitely not the one.
Rin.
Are you suspicious of other people?
I still haven't thought about it.
Maybe your mom knows.
Maybe there's someone
who doesn't like her.
But it got sent to you.
My mom?
I can ask,
but I don't think there is anyone.
All right then.
Mr. Narto and I are still
at the village chief's house.
We're trying to find new information.
If you have other people in mind,
let me know, okay?
Yes, take care, Pram.
I will.
Rin, it might take a while.
You should get some rest.
When Pram and Mr. Narto come home,
I'll talk to them.
Okay, Mom.
What's wrong?
I have cramps.
Can you get Mrs. Dar?
I'll go get some hot water
to soak your feet.
Okay then.
Mom.
- Mom?
- Rin!
Mom!
- Mom.
- Mrs. Rina.
My God!
Rin! I'm locked inside!
Mrs. Rina?
I can't open it.
Mrs. Rina!
Mom!
Rin!
Mrs. Rina.
- Mrs. Rina.
- Mrs. Rina!
Help her!
- But how?
- Mrs. Rina.
Mrs. Rina!
- Mrs. Rina!
This child will not be born alive.
Mrs. Rina!
Mr. Pram!
- Mr. Pram!
- Yes.
- Come quickly!
- Okay.
Pram…
Hey!
You creature!
I order you to leave this place.
Leave!
- Leave at once!
- Rin.
- Leave!
- The baby's coming!
Sit down, Rin.
God, forgive us. Please be strong, Rin.
- Please help her.
- Yes.
Help her.
Be strong.
Get a blanket and some hot water!
Leave!
Come on, hurry up!
Here.
Leave. Go!
- You can do it, Rin.
- Yes, Mrs. Rina.
- Push, Mrs. Rin!
Praise be to God.
You did it, Rin.
With the permission of God Almighty.
Get out of here!
Don't bother us here again!
Go back to where you came from!
Rin.
Rina.
Allah is the Greatest.
The doctor said
her lungs are not fully developed.
She still has to be treated longer
in the hospital.
Mr. Narto.
If the baby is born safely,
then the curse must be gone, right?
I hope so, Mrs. Rina.
But the curse can't possibly disappear
because it has entered your child's blood.
And your child
won't grow like other children.
Everything can go back to normal
only when the curse is removed.
And that old man
will definitely come back again
to take your child
at the time he has set.
When is that?
Seven weeks,
seven months,
seven years.
Your first child
was taken when you were
seven weeks pregnant.
Last night, he came
when you were seven months pregnant.
He will come back again
when your child is seven years old.
1988, 7 YEARS LATER
My God.
- Mrs. Dar.
- Yes, Mrs. Rina.
Where's Dwi?
She's with your mother.
Mom!
Where is Dwi?
What? Dwi?
- Sweetie?
- Dwi!
- Gosh.
Sweetie?
- Mrs. Dar, go there.
- Of course.
Sweetie!
Dwi!
Dwi?
Dwi.
Please give me the knife.
Just dig the ground with a shovel.
I'll get it later.
But bring the knife here first, okay?
Dwi!
Mom.
Mom!
Mom! Are you okay?
I'm okay.
Dwi. Dwi is in the room!
Gosh.
Dwi.
Dwi?
Dwi…
I can't stand
seeing her like this every day.
I want her to be like other children.
You know that I will do anything for her.
So will I, Rin.
Even now,
Mr. Narto and I are still looking
- for the person who--
- Will we ever find that person?
We've checked everyone, Pram.
My friends.
Mom's friends. My family.
Your coworkers, and yet?
Nobody did it.
Until now, we haven't found who did it.
Tomorrow is Dwi's seventh birthday, Pram.
And according to Mr. Narto,
the old man will come again.
Rin, I know.
I know that.
That's why this afternoon,
Mr. Narto will come with a friend.
Someone who has stronger powers.
A father and son from Banyuwangi.
They will protect our house
and make sure the old man can't get in,
so that Dwi can't be taken.
Mr. Yai.
Mr. Narto.
Thank you for coming to our house.
Aryo.
- We should start soon.
- Yes, please.
Are you ready, Mr. Yai?
Be careful, remember, and be alert.
- Yes, Mr. Yai.
- Yes.
This border is as strong as a fortress
for our defense
because he will
definitely try hard to get in.
He will come exactly at midnight,
right when Dwi turns seven.
O Allah, the Most Great God.
To You we surrender.
Give us safety and strength.
May this protection
protect Dwi from all forms of disturbance.
And give us strength
and our child Dwi Rahasti,
daughter of Pram Prasetyo,
until all these threats are gone.
If that evil figure comes,
make him weak.
Make him go away.
If that evil figure comes,
make him go away.
make him weak.
If that evil figure comes,
Make him go away.
- Allah is the Greatest.
- My God!
- Dwi.
- Dwi!
He's up there.
Everybody, back off.
If that evil figure comes,
make him weak.
Make him go away.
If that evil figure comes,
make him weak.
Make him go away.
Leave!
- Aryo!
Mr. Yai!
Everybody, go to the room!
- Go inside the bedroom!
- Go!
- Quick!
- Get inside!
- Ma'am, Mrs. Rina.
- Come.
- Come in.
- Yes, ma'am.
Narto.
- Take care of Dwi.
- Yes.
Pram!
Pram…
Dwi. No!
Hey!
You ugly creature!
Who sent you?
Dwi!
Get out of here!
Come on, fight me! Come on!
Come on.
Come on, come here!
Come on!
Ugly creature, come on!
Fight me then, come on!
Cursed creature.
This is not your place!
Don't bother this family!
Hey, ugly creature!
Go away.
If that evil figure comes, make him weak.
You deserve to be tortured in hell!
Leave!
Go away!
Dear. Wake up!
Pram.
Are you okay?
You're safe now.
For now, you are all safe.
But I saw it in his eyes.
Someone here isn't telling the truth.
What do you mean?
Try to be honest.
What are you hiding from each other?
Nothing.
Pram?
Actually,
there's someone I suspect
sent this curse, Rin.
I just haven't told you yet.
Ever since we found out that
Yudi had died,
I thought hard for days.
And I'm pretty sure that
she was the one who sent this curse.
I told Mr. Narto
and he was also quite confident
that she sent the curse.
Who is it?
Pram.
Mawar.
Mawar?
Who's Mawar?
- Have you eaten?
- Yes.
SOLO, CENTRAL JAVA 1980
So you don't get sleepy.
Are you sure about Rina?
Two years of dating,
but never in the same place.
She's always out of town.
She keeps moving.
She keeps getting promoted.
There's no way she'll leave her job.
I don't know.
You have me, Pram.
I'll leave everything.
To be your wife.
I'll accompany you everywhere,
so we can always be together.
So all this time,
I was just a place for you to stop by?
Please calm down.
I never thought of you like that.
But I have to choose.
Rina said that
she's willing to quit her job for me.
I'm marrying Rina.
Pram!
You and your family will be miserable!
I thought it was just her rage.
A meaningless threat.
Rin.
For the past seven years,
Mr. Narto and I
have kept trying to find Mawar.
I asked Mr. Narto not to tell you.
I didn't want to hurt you, Rin.
Rin.
Please forgive me.
I never met her again, Rin.
It's only you, Rin. Rina.
Rin.
Pram, we don't have much time.
We have to find Mawar.
- Yes, but how?
- We will perform a ritual.
I need you and Rina
to participate in this ritual.
Rin.
Rin!
You have every right to be angry, Rin.
But I'm begging you.
There are more important things
we have to do now.
We have to save Dwi.
We have to put an end to this terror, Rin.
I need you.
Dwi needs you, Rin.
I was wrong.
I know I was wrong.
But please
let me fix everything.
Rin.
So that Dwi
can be like other children.
Can you promise this will work?
I promise.
To His Highness,
the barrier that covered it is now open.
Give us sight and light on the way.
Please give us some guidance
on where the sender is located.
She is on the border
of Wonosobo and Magelang.
I know exactly where.
Rin, I'm leaving.
Rina, Aryo will stay with you at home.
Pram and I are going to Mawar's house.
Where could it be?
Let's check out her backyard.
- Yes.
- Come on.
Pram, dig there.
- Yes, sir.
- Yes.
- I'll get the shovel in the car.
You're awake, my love.
I didn't think you could find me.
Even though my shaman said
it's unlikely that you'll know.
Your shaman is not bad.
But now,
it's all too late.
You never see me, do you, Pram?
I was always there for you.
Not Rina! Me!
I'm satisfied
seeing you and your wife suffer
for seven years.
This is a lot more fun
than killing you all one by one.
Wait.
Wait a second.
No one shall disturb this curse.
Pram.
Find the jar.
Yes, I will.
Mr. Yai.
Sir.
Mr. Yai. Sir?
I've got the jar, sir.
Mr. Yai. Come on.
Sir. I have the jar.
Sir?
Mr. Yai.
Indeed, we belong to Allah,
and indeed, to Him we will return.
Hello?
Rin, is Aryo there?
Aryo, your father…
He passed away.
Mawar hit his head.
He bled a lot and…
He couldn't make it.
Indeed, we belong to Allah,
and indeed, to Him we will return.
Aryo.
I have the jar with me.
What should I do now?
Mr. Pram, bring it here.
I'll do the ritual.
Please forgive us, Aryo.
Because of all this,
your father…
It's okay, Mrs. Rina.
This was his destiny.
Have strength, Rin.
This will be over soon.
Dwi.
Aryo?
Stay in your room. Don't go out.
- Mom.
- Yes.
Dwi.
Aryo.
Aryo!
Don't you dare hurt this family again!
- Mom, please take care of Dwi!
- Yes.
Aryo?
Aryo!
Dwi.
Dwi!
Mom!
Are you okay, Mom?
Dwi! Where's Dwi?
Dwi was taken.
Dwi! Don't take her!
No one else can perform the ritual.
This child is mine.
No!
My blood has flowed
into this child's blood.
My saliva has reached your womb.
You think this is Pram's child?
She wouldn't even want to be his.
Let her go!
No matter who her father is,
I'm still her mother!
You have no right to take her!
I will do whatever it takes
as long as Dwi stays alive!
If you like me,
just take me!
Instead of taking her life,
take mine!
Dwi.
I may not be here to raise you.
But I will always take care of you
and look after you.
To me,
you are my everything.
Dwi…
Mommy loves you, Dwi.
Rina!
- Rina!
- Rin!
Pram, Rina is missing!
Rina is missing!
- Rina!
- My God.
Dwi.
Sweetie?
Rina.
Sweetie, where's your mother?
Please tell me.
Rina!
Wake up, Rina.
Rin.
Wake up, Rin, wake up.
- Wake up.
- Rin…
- Rina…
This is your fault, Pram!
It's all your fault!
Rina…
Mom.
I'm leaving Dwi with you.
Where are you going? Rina is gone.
Please forgive me, Mom.
I'm removing the curse.
I've promised Rina.
Dwi.
Please forgive your father.
I'm so sorry, sweetie.
Mawar?
Mawar.
Pram.
Did you come back here to kill me?
I just want to ask you for help.
Release the curse from Dwi
and bring Rina back.
Do you think I was joking
when I said that you and your family
will be miserable?
Mawar.
You made a mistake coming here, Pram!
Pram!
Enough, Mawar!
Enough! Stop!
Please listen to me!
Remove the curse from my family!
Bring back Dwi and Rina!
Never.
Mawar, I can hurt you.
And I thought you loved me.
Please, Mawar.
Enough.
Please. Enough.
Enough, Mawar.
You could die.
Isn't that what you want?
So that you and your family
can be free from the curse?
Please stop this, Mawar.
It doesn't have to be like this.
I just want you
to bring Rina and Dwi back.
You're still choosing Rina?
If you love her that much,
then follow her to hell.
No witchcraft can bring her back.
She's dead.
She has become that old man's bride!
Rina!
Rin.
I can't live without you, Rin.
Forgive me, Rina.
Mom.
I hope Dwi will be fine after this.
Dwi.
Who are you?
You can talk?
Who is Dwi?
Valedictory speech by Dwi Rahasti,
graduate of the Medical Program,
with a GPA of 3.98, cum laude!
- Congratulations.
- Thank you.
Thank you, everyone.
Since I was a little girl,
I grew up without my parents.
I don't even have
any memory of them
when they were alive.
However, there is one thing
that always rings in my heart.
Their wish is for me
to be useful to many people.
Today,
I dedicate this graduation to them.